I am sure you’ll agree…
Nobody among us really wants to look like
this..
So, what do we want to look like?
Immediately, probably THIS comes to mind.
Arnold Schwarzenegger.
Mr. Olympia.
Mr. Universe.
Probably the best built body in the world.
He could pump up his chest muscles so much,
that he could balance a glass tumbler on top
of it, it seems.
But..
there are some who want to actually NOT look
like this.
They want to look like THIS instead.
Lean.
Mean.
Not a single extra layer of fat.
Lean.
That’s what we are going to talk about today!
I have become a bit leaner, haven’t I?
But we are going to talk about a different
kind of Lean.
Yes..
Lean.
But, lean as seen in these books.
Lean Management.
Lean Startup.
Lean Leadership.
Lean Thinking.
Six Sigma Lean. Real Lean.
Lean Businesses.
Lean Starting Up.
What sorta Lean is this?
Should we read all these, to understand about
Lean?
Or is there an essence?
Something that captures it succinctly?
I searched..
And found a book like this.
The Lean Book of Lean.
Sounded perfect for me.
And I started reading it.
In that book, the author explains what Lean
is, what this approach is, what this methodology
is, in a way that is accessible and understandable
to everybody.
Beautifully laid out, in seven / eight simple
concepts.
That is what I am going to parade in front
of you.
It starts with being “customer-driven”.
See what the customer wants.
And deliver that!
Very often we see people come up with products
that very few people want.
You must be remembering the discussion we
had about the painkiller and the vitamin.
The difference between the two.
Vitamin — yes, nice to have.
Painkiller.
You need it.
You need it now!
So, be customer demand-driven..
Recently, there was this trend.
“Charcoal Dosa”.
It will detox you.
It is for Singles, especially.
If we start thinking that this is going to
be a raging trend from now on, and if we commission
an EvoChef Dosa Maker exclusively setup to
make charcoal dosas, an optimised process
that allows you to “manufacture” two dosas
in ten seconds…
all is well, but… did we find out if there
was a customer demand for it in the first
place?
People should queue up, and only then you
will need to have to optimise your process
so you can spin out two dosas in ten seconds..
Else, premature optimisation, if you remember!
So, be customer-driven!
Next, the author brings up a beautiful concept
called “Maximising Flow”.
For my surgery, to rehabilitate, my doctor
had a specific advice for me.
“Movement is Medicine”.
Keep moving.
I encountered this video recently on YouTube.
An animation.
A simulation.
A junction where four roads meet.
They animate it to check whether the number
of vehicles that can smoothly pass through
that can be maximised.
The number is shown in the bottom, in the
middle-zone of the video, you will notice
how the roads are organised.
Look at how it is being optimised.
We start with a “no signals” scenario.
Now, the traffic lights come on.
Around 200 vehicles are able to flow.
A concept called the Slip Road is introduced.
The next is a continuous flow intersection.
No stoppage needed for anybody.
Pinavia is next.
Nine hundred vehicles can go!
Turbine comes next.
And finally, the last one, Stack Interchange.
A thousand and more vehicles can ply.
Two lane ramps.
What is maximised here?
Flow!
Nobody has to be stopped and restarted.
That is what people hate!
Not just on the roads, but in life too.
Not just in life, but in work too.
Don’t keep anybody waiting on anybody else.
If you can maximise that, that is a beautiful
Lean thing to do.
The next principle he talks about is Elimination
of Waste.
We continue to “manufacture waste” in
so many unusual and unexpected ways.
He gives us a very shocking piece of statistics.
Sixty percent of what any company produces
is Waste, he says!
Unbelievable, actually.
But, he gives us a lot of research papers
and links as proof.
Sixty percent is wasted!
Could be because of defects, could be because
of overproduction.
Could be due to transportation complications.
Or because of waiting.
Worst of all is the Waste due to non-utilised
talent!
“I know to do so many amazing things, and
this is what they have ended up making me
do instead”.
Eliminating Waste — eliminating fat — is
another amazing Lean principle.
This was interesting.
They talked about declaring WAR on Variation.
Don’t change a thing.
For, if you change it, the side-effects, the
after-effects, will slow things down.
You will sway from the “Movement is Medicine”
principle!
It will make you immobilised.
Will blockade you.
There will be obstacles.
What is that “War on Variation”?
You come up with something new…
Don’t immediately put it into production.
Don’t keep varying things.
If you have a successful formula, keep running
it.
You know where your variations should be played?
In your research!
In your R&D.
Labs.
There, you can vary.
Just because… look at this Formula-1 Car.
Just because you have come up with a new wheel…,
lighter, sturdier, better grip, you can’t
just come and do this..
The vehicle will be imbalanced!
If you change, you need to change all four.
And, before changing all four, you need to
ensure there are enough spares in the pitstop.
Because, this is production!
This is not a lab!
So, stabilise, have a plan, you don’t need
to have the right plan.. but you have to have
a plan, and adhere to it one hundred percent.
Keep varying the plan.
Don’t allow the process to vary from the
plan.
Keep varying the plan.
Then, he says, Structure the People in your
team so that they are structured around Outcomes.
Developers.
Programmers.
If there are a thousand such people, then
a Group Lead for those thousand.
A Manager on top.
A President above that.
Instead of going in this classic timeworn
tradition, structure them … What does the
developer really need to work?
To do their work very well, they need probably
an assistant who helps with Design.
They need to probably work with a Marketer.
They need to probably work with a User Experience
Engineer.
Create clumps.
In the hierarchy of “Team Formations”,
there is a sequence like this.
You start with a disconnected team.
Nobody knows who the other persons are.
Then it evolves with a Single Leader, who
gives all instructions.
To whom everybody reports.
Then, there is this Forum where you listen
to me while I talk, and I to you when you
talk!
And then, a Community.
We don’t need that guy up there.
We both can talk, deliberate, decide!
He is not needed!
He will be available for us, when we need
Him.
And, that evolves into a self-directed team,
where you can’t even tell who the boss is.
And, finally, The Team of Teams..
Yes, there has to be some central guidance,
but more often than not, much of the work,
most of the decisions that get taken, we can
decide among ourselves, we are autonomous
in that sense.
That is the Team of Teams structure.
So, this sort of clumps, federated groups,
that is how you should design your team, that
is Lean.
And, talking about resources, how to identify
the right resources, and how to train those
resources, … I am reminded of the 300 people
who appear in the 300 movie.
Against them, warring party after warring
party comes.
Two hundred to two hundred and fifty magicians
come.
Then, about five hundred people mounted in
horses.
And then, around two hundred people mounted
in elephants.
One-track folks.
Who don’t know anything else.
Who can’t do what they are supposed to do
in a slightly different environment.
But, these 300?
Each is a gem!
Each is actually an ARMY in himself.
He can do surveillance.
He can do spy work.
He can actually do defence, offence, he can
ride on a horse, he can throw a spear, he
can wield a bow.
So, that kind of all-round ability.
That is what you need to nurture.
What they must lack should only be time.
If only I have the time, I would build that
product from scratch and deliver it to you
— they must be able to say!
Hire such people!
That, again, is Lean.
While talking about getting people, you will
also have to talk about evaluating them.
Measuring.
How they are doing what they are supposed
to do.
When you get into evaluation and measurement,
Simple is Better.
As simple as you can, is better.
Has to be clear.
Has to be simple.
Beyond that, he shares an interesting phrase.
Is that a “Lagging Measure” or a “Leading
Measure”..?
What is a “Lagging Measure”?
A Lagging Measure is the measure of something
that has already happened.
THIS is a Lagging Measure.
You have binged on pizza last night.
Today, you are asking for a body-report.
But, how is that going to help?
It is a snapshot of history.
On the other hand, what is a “Leading Measure”?
A Leading Measure is the number of reps with
a kettlebell.
How am I doing?
Can I have a dotted like to how I will be..
Have Leading Measures, he says.
Finally, have a goal that is very clearly
defined.
If we had asked Usain Bolt what his intention
was at The Olympics, in 2004, 2008, 2012,
do you think he would have said, “I am looking
for a podium finish..
1, 2, or 3..
Just need a medal…”
Would he have said that?
Or, would he have said, “Not enough if I
win, I am gunning for the world record”.
If you did the same kind of questioning on
company chiefs and marketing heads, their
answer might more often be “Somehow, our
company should squeeze its way into the Gartner
Magic Quadrant”…” or “We want to be
in the top ten percentile..”
Is this humility or is this vagueness in intent?
If you don’t define your ideal state extremely
clearly, these lean methodologies won’t
work, the author says.
As a closing thought, I just have one observation
to make.
I was doing a lot of “Lean-keyword” research,
for this.
And, of course, the Leaning Tower of Pisa
came on the radar.
When you consider the Leaning Tower of Pisa,
they have been building it for two hundred
years.
Just a few years after starting it, they had
realised it was going to lean.
And then, some wars, some famines, had made
them pause, stop the construction.
And then they resume it.
They build it for two hundred years.
And today, it is a shining example of something
that went wrong.
Poor planning.
While studying about this…, there was no
single person to attribute the construction
to.
Somebody designed it, somebody else, a king,
commissioned it, and somebody else, years
later, finished the construction.
I was just wondering, what if… what if it
was intended to lean?
What if the ground was such a horrible top
soil?
It is foamy soil, it seems.
Soil that compresses if you put your foot
down strongly!
That is because a river’s water seeps underground
and makes the soil soggy..
In such soggy soil, where even walking is
hard, imagine a person resolving to build
a bell tower!
Imagine a person resolving to build a LEANING
tower!
Imagine a person wanting people from around
the world to visit!
Would we give that person credit, or would
we keep mocking at it?
In fact, after the fifth floor, the pillars
of the leaning side are taller, to adjust
for the lean.
If you straighten the tower, it will seem
to lean towards the other side!
Because, the pillars have been done taller
on purpose.
When you climb from the seventh floor to the
eighth floor, you will actually descend, it
seems!
That is because of the degree of lean!
So, why aren’t we appreciating it, as an
amazing wonder, that it still stands…
I thought!
Ironical, is it not?
We will meet again, next week!
Thank you!